And I think the biggest piece of this and
one of the things that is nearest and
dearest to my heart is most of what
we're doing is not complex and
now that is not to say that the work
we're doing isn't challenging it's not to
say that it's not important or that
it's not hardly it's not easy right but
it's not complex we're not building
multiple updates per second
hundreds of thousands or
millions of concurrent users like the vast
majority of us are just trying to
get information on to a website.
And that website is updating,
I don't know, maybe once an hour,
maybe a couple times an hour on
a really active site, because it just,
that's just the nature of the internet.
Most of what we're doing is informational.
Most of what we're doing is we're
allowing people to perform a task.
And the vast majority of websites,
even really busy websites,
aren't seeing the type of scale.
That a lot of these frameworks have been
built for when you start looking at what
next or react or some of these
frameworks are built to handle,
they're built to handle
the scale of Facebook.
They're built to handle the scale of
a site like Airbnb, where the things that
are happening are extraordinarily high
volume, extraordinarily high complexity,
and realistically speaking, if you
think about the websites you visit on
a day-to-day basis, the websites that we
work on, most of them aren't that most
of what we use is not Facebook or Twitter
or Airbnb or similar types of sites.
It's usually something that's more like,
I need some information.
I need a list of products.
I need to see what my
shopping card is doing.
And each of those things is,
it's not easy to build, but
it's not the level of complexity
that that seems necessary to manage
alike multi-user real time feed or
something like that, right?
So we get told that we need these
these big frameworks with lots and
lots of power and you know, the ability
to instantly invalidate things or
the ability to control your cache or
to do all of this stuff, and
we just don't it's it's a lot
of kinda voluntary suffering to
pick up caching manually to pick
up managing servers manually.
If you're not actually
using those features for
a business critical thing
if you're opting into that,
because somebody told you that
maybe you'll need it someday.
If you grow to Twitter scale
you can do that there is no
wrong choice in tech they
are just trade offs.
Right?
And so what I like about Astro is
that it's going at it the other way. Where frameworks like Nexn and Remix and stuff,
they're thinking about, like,
how does this thing become big and very complicated and very interactive
what Astro is saying is,
it's probably gonna start simple.
And it's gonna scale, and
it's gonna get complex.
But you should do that like on a per
page or even on a per component level,
not necessarily up your entire
website into this very complex,
hard to manage framework that is
gonna have things like pagerduty,
that's gonna have things like Running
servers and caches that you have to now
think about and maintain.Whereas
Astro's like just put it on a CDN.
You'll know when it's time to
no longer use the CDN, but
it probably won't be as soon as
you might suspect, because again,
we kind of get sold this idea that we need
all of this complexity and all this power.
But we just don't,
in the vast majority of websites.
>> Yeah people are just kinda debating
in chat around the adoption of astro and
I pointed to the astro showcase, but
maybe you could talk about how either
you're using it or companies are using it.
>> So there's the fairly standard
this is a listing of the things that
happen on learn with Jason.
So I've got these are dynamic in
the sense that they update whenever my
schedule updates, but those are once per
day not per second or anything like that.
These are pulled from
YouTube at build time again,
these update once per day probably a few
times per week same with these and
then I have a list of episodes that
list of episodes is everything that
I've ever made this is I think where
am I at three almost 350 episodes
of the show I've got the schedule
of everything that's coming up and
then I also run a blog I've
got a newsletter capture.
And then a few really dynamic pieces
like we've got fuzzy search so
if you wanna find stuff about
Astro you can jump through and
find a video on Astro right and
this is powered by Algolia and so
this is a like partially hydrated
section of the website that
runs this command K overlay
>> So
do you have it set up where Netlify
builds every night or something.
>> Netlify builds whenever I make a change
and so I just have webhooks built so
that if I update my CMS Netlify
knows to rebuild, whenever I
change the YouTube stuff, that one I
haven't bothered to set up a webhook for
because I build the site often enough
anyways, that it kinda doesn't matter,
but yeah, all of this is run, the episodes
in the schedule are powered by,
Sanity CMS and that has web hooks.
So, whenever I make a change, Astro
is aware of it because of Netlify and
that rebuilds the, the site.
Astro itself is being used
by a lot of different
websites It's still pretty early.
So take like take a lot of what I'm
saying with a grain of salt like
Astro is still a relatively
new coming framework.
And this idea of partial
hydration is solid, but
not thoroughly battle tested
on every particular use case.
So use your judgment and and
you like my goal today is not to tell you
that you should use Astro for everything.
My goal is to give you another
tool in your toolbox, so
that as you're looking at projects that
you need to build, you're able to say
this doesn't seem as complex as would
be as would merit like a next JS build.
Let's put this thing on Astro.
And a lot of times you can, and
what I wanna show you today is
actually how far you can take Astro so
that, where that window of this is
complex enough to use something else.
It's actually further away than I
think a lot of us might suspect.
But yeah,
there are a lot of sites on here.The
Firebase website is running on it.
Everybody's welcome to dig through
these and see what they can find.
But in the grand scheme of things,
in the grand scheme of the web,
a fun stat that I found that kinda blew my
mind, I was thinking, I'm on Twitter, and
I spend a lot of time on
Twitter talking about tech and
listening to people talk about
what they're excited about,
what the standards are, what you
should and shouldn't be building with.
And because I've spent so
much time in that bubble.
I was convinced that React had
a chokehold on the industry and
that everybody was building in React and
so many websites were in React.
And so I went and I looked at it.
There's this website called W3Techs and
it keeps track of what they can measure
from millions of websites, right?
And so if you start digging in
to how many websites use React.
This is giant JavaScript here's
react React is being used by
roughly 3% of all websites
on the internet and
that is not by no means a small
number like 3% of the Internet is
a huge number of websites but
to listen to the bubble of tech discourse,
you would think that this number
was significantly higher, right?
And also, the way that I hear people
talk about things like jQuery,
it sounds like it's dead.
It sounds like nobody uses it.
But look at this.
Almost every website, that is shipped with
JavaScript is running jQuery today, right?
This is these are relatively recent stats.
I think they update weekly or something.
So if three out of four websites on
the internet is shipping jQuery,
and three out of 100 websites
is shipping React the use
cases that we think we need React for.
They're just not as prevalent as we think.
Right?
And so reaching for these frameworks as
a default, it can get us into
maintenance trouble later down the road.
And for me, the biggest thing that we're
after here is I want to spend my time
building things, not maintaining things.
I don't ever want to get paged
because the marketing site is down.
I don't ever, actually,
I don't ever wanna get paged ever.
So if I can build every single part of the
website in a way that doesn't go down and
like, if you want to go for
never get page ship HTML and CSS to a CDN,
it will not go down.
CDNs are about the last thing in
the technology chain that's gonna get
taken down.
And if the CDN goes down,
nobody's worried about your website,
the whole internet is down.
So yeah, like I said,
I want to build stuff, not maintain it.
And I think that one of the reasons that
Astro is attractive to me is that it
defaults toward the thing that has
the least number of moving parts.
I don't want to have to think about
whether or not my serverless functions
are speaking to my cache properly or
speaking to whatever other piece.
I don't wanna be maintaining a server.
I had to ship a server for a server
full framework and for the first time
in my last decade of work was getting
emails about your server is out of memory.
Your server crashed and was restarted.
And I just I was like, My God, I forgot
that these problems existed because I'd
been shipping static websites and
not having to deal with these problems.
So what part of the problem that I think
we have is that a lot of us just either
never had to do it or have forgotten how
much work it was to keep servers up and
running.
And so seeing everybody moving towards
servers as a default freaks me out.
Again, there is no such thing as
a wrong choice, there's just trade-offs.
And I personally I'm not willing to accept
the trade-off of running a server unless
there is no other option, and the way I
see it in the vast majority of cases,
there are other options and you can ship
something much simpler that takes a lot
less maintenance and is easier to
deploy and keep healthy question.
>> So would it be accurate to characterize
Astro as content oriented versus app
oriented?
>> I think that is what has
been most proven out right now,
is that Astro is very,
very good for content oriented.
That being said,
most apps are single page apps.
Like if you look at the dominance of
the 3.3% of websites on the internet
that are running React,
most of them are running create React app.
So it's mostly single page apps
that are just mounted into HTML.
And if you wanna do that on Astro,
you absolutely can because Astro
under the hood is running Vite.
So if you wanna build a page on your Astro
site that has a div that mounts a single
page app that runs React router.
And has your whole dashboard on it.
You can absolutely do that.
And I've seen that done is like,
is it gonna give you server rendering?
It can we'll talk about how Astra does
server rendering if you if you wanna opt
into that.
But for the vast majority of use cases,
we're seeing that single page apps are the
way that that the internet gets built.
Despite claims to the contrary,
like server rendering is the exception,
not the rule.
And I think that we've, again,
tech Twitter is a is a big bubble and
Hacker News.
And these these websites are very,
very aggressively telling us that things
are this way and they must be this way and
I just, I'm not here to tell you
that anything must be anyway, I'm trying
to remind everybody that there are a lot
of tools and this is a big spectrum.
And you wanna pick a tool that's actually
solving the problem you have, you know,
like, sure you can go and get a pneumatic
drill and use that to put in one painting.
But why?
Like it's a lot of setup and
maintenance to keep a pneumatic drill
running when all you need is one hole.
All right so just get the hammer get
the screwdriver like it's gonna be okay
you don't need the big complex
many moving parts thing.
I really like the developer experience
of modern JavaScript I really really
like building component based websites
I love the portability of being able
to build with React or Solid or Svelte
and Vue is wonderful to work with.
So all of these have amazing perks
of how it is to work with them
the improvements they have over
manually rolling your own JavaScript or
writing HTML templates and
copy pasting the headers and
footers around The problem is that all
of them come with JavaScript trade offs.
You get these big bundle sizes of,
it's 30 something kilobytes for
React these days, and that's before
you add any of your app code.
And again,
when you're running it like that,
the whole page has to be
hydrated as JavaScript.
And so when the whole page has to be
hydrated to JavaScript, and that means
that people need to be able to run it
without JavaScript, but it won't work.
So then you have to reach for
server rendering.
So this is again, like some of this stuff
is like we're solving problems that we
created for ourselves that we could
have solved by going the other way.
And I think that Astro
is going the other way.
It's saying,
you don't need server rendering.
Just build with the DX that's great.
And ship the thing that works best for
the vast majority of use cases.
And only add complexity
when it's necessary.
And I think that leads me to like my
biggest takeaway which is Astro is
the right kind of boring.
I desperately want to be bored at work.
The last thing I want to use
my energy my excitement for
is putting out a fire at work.
I want to cook over fires.
I don't wanna put out fires Right.
I want all of my energy left to
hang out with my friends and
family to do my hobbies to work
on projects that are fun for me.
I don't want to ship some complicated
thing into production and
then find out that is
down on a Saturday night.
Now I get to leave the barbecue
to go do something for work.
That is never how I wanna spend my time.
So I want my tech to be boring.
And I want it to be boring in the way that
after I've shipped it if I forget to look
at it for the rest of my life it will
continue to be on the internet and
HTML and CSS on a CDN will continue to
function probably until the heat death of
the universe judging by the way
that We've handled web standards.
So far, the web is very, very good at
maintaining backward compatibility.
The JavaScript ecosystem is less so.
So if you're betting on something that
takes the least amount of your time
after you build it, go for the things
that don't have moving parts go for
the things that don't rely on changing
standards that are very fast.
Look for something that is
just gonna set and forget for
the rest of time.Maintenance should be
because you've got a new feature to add or
because you've, you wanna go overhaul
that page, not because it's broken or
because it's down or
because the major version change and
now you've got to rewrite the whole thing
to match whatever the breaking changes.
We're in version four.
Right?